---
layout: post
title: Azure Fundamentals Certification Preparation
description: How I'm preparing for the AZ-900 exam
author: Brian Davis
categories: training
tags: certification, fundamentals
date: 2020-03-31
comments: true
published: false
---

Greetings!  I wanted to do a blog post about studying for the [Azure Fundamentals (AZ-900)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-900#certification-exams) exam.  I've technically been using Azure in my consulting position for a little over two years now.  However, I've really started leaning into it, and getting serious about learning it, within the last year.  My goal is to blend my administration background with my development career and pursuing Azure, and the solutions it provides, really seems like the ideal amalgamation of the two to me.  I'm passionate about doing IT right, and I'm also passionate about clean development practices.  So, I feel this is a pretty exciting time to be learning Azure.  I've been fortunate to get my hands dirty with real-world projects during this time.  However, like many of you I'm sure, I do want to formalize that experience by obtaining Azure-based certifications.  Whether it's angling for more money or just wanting others to take you seriously, there's no doubt these certications have the potential to unlock doors and change mindsets.

Given all of that, it seemed only natural to start at the ground floor, so to speak.  The Azure Fundamentals exam is aimed at a much broader audience than just us techies.  However, I feel it may be deceptively hard.  No, I don't think I'll have to configure a hybrid network connection or some crazy storage solution, but I also can't remember another exam that had the potential to cover such a breadth of material.  We all know that Azure is a beast and constanly changing with new offerings and updates to existing ones.  So, it's a little unnerving when I look at the range of material.  I do think it helps to have real-world projects to practice recommending services and pricing estimates, though.  So, I hope that's building up repetition and the muscle memory I need to retain the knowledge.

My primary curriculum for studying has been the 12-module Microsoft Learn [Azure fundamentals](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/azure-fundamentals/) learning path.  This has been great because it allow some hands-on practice in a free Azure lab environment to cement some concepts.  It's free and virtual, which is awesome because my company doesn't typically pay for training classes.  It really didn't take that long to get through and it's gamified so you get the thrill of leveling up!  I've also purchased the Official Practice Test from Microsoft partner MeasureUp.  See [this link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-900#certification-exams) to learn more about the exam objectives and the practice test. There's a test pass gurantee for what it's worth and I wanted something I could use as a measuring stick.  That way, I could iterate with the practice test and brush up on objectives I needed more studying on.  

There are a growing number of other free resources as well.  The awesome Tim Warner has a [YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfZ1kgHlrfg&list=PLYGZ9Q0oTOHfsI-3IAhvyc09ssPDfoePv) that, when finished, will consist of no less than 63 study guide videos.  Likewise, the fantastic Thomas Maurer has just released, like as of yesterday 3/30, his [study guide](https://www.thomasmaurer.ch/2020/03/az-900-study-guide-microsoft-azure-fundamentals-2020/).  I'm sure I'll have a look at these as I progress in my studying.

So, there's a lot of momentum around this exam it seems. I'm curious as to what others are using to prepare.  Leave a comment below and let me know what your approach is and if I'm being paranoid about the difficulty as it relates to the breadth of the content that could be covered.  I'd love to hear your feedback!  Thanks and good luck in your studies! 
